---
layout: post
title: "Junior Professorship (W1, Tenure Track Full Professor W3) in Computational Logic"
shorttitle: "W1ttW3 Professorship @ Ulm University"
author: Matthias Tichy
link:  https://stellenangebote.uni-ulm.de/jobposting/d4ccc62561a75b7b762e73e20c2575b2c08c36455
deadline: 2026-06-30
tags: Position Ulm University Logic SAT
excerpt: Junior Professorship (W1, Tenure Track Full Professor W3) in Computational Logic – Ulm University, Germany 
---

Junior Professorship (W1, Tenure Track Full Professor W3) in Computational Logic
Ulm University, Germany
Deadline: 30 June 2026
Reference number: 26078
Applications must be submitted via the online portal:
https://stellenangebote.uni-ulm.de/jobposting/d4ccc62561a75b7b762e73e20c2575b2c08c36455

---

Ulm University, Germany, invites applications for a Junior Professorship (W1) in Computational Logic with Tenure Track to W3 to be filled as soon as possible.

Profile:

We are seeking an exceptional candidate with an international track record in the field of computational logic to strengthen the area of theoretical computer science at Ulm University with respect to research and teaching. We expect a track record in acquiring competitive third-party funding. The successful candidate will propose a research program that strengthens and complements the research expertise in the institute, the faculty and the university as a whole. We expect research expertise in all of the following research topics:

* Distributed SAT-solving
* Parallel SAT-solving
* SAT solving on GPU-clusters
* Application of SAT-solving for hybrid AI architectures

The university provides an ideal setting for the assistant professor, with numerous opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and exchange, e.g., the research training center KEMAI „Knowledge Infusion and Extraction for Explainable Medical AI“. Additionally, the Science City of Ulm and the Transfer Center for Digitization, Analytics & Data Science offer further connections and partnerships with local companies.

We are looking for an individual with a passion for teaching to strengthen our teaching portfolio for our computer science B.Sc. and M.Sc. programs. Basic-level instruction is offered in German while advanced courses may be taught in English. We expect strong teaching skills, documented, for example, by excellent teaching evaluations or continued educational training. Active participation in the faculty’s self-administration is expected.

If the evaluation is positive, appointment to a tenured W3 professorship will be offered. Requirements for a later transition to a W3 professorship are defined in the "Satzung der Universität Ulm zur Qualitätssicherung bei der Berufung und Evaluierung von Tenure-Track-Professoren und Tenure-Track-Professorinnen vom 21.11.2018" (Statutes  of Ulm University regarding quality assurance during the appointment and evaluation of tenure track professors of 21 November 2018) and the subject-specific prerequisites for this professorship.

In addition to the general legal requirements, the employment requirements include completed university studies as well as teaching aptitute and special aptitude for academic work, which is usually demonstrated by the outstanding quality of a doctorate (§ 51 Abs. 2 LHG).

Seize the opportunity and join us in shaping the future of the University!

For further information, please contact:
Prof. Dr. Matthias Tichy, matthias.tichy@uni-ulm.de
